




MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT

with regard to 

DELIVERY OF IT SERVICES
 




Husqvarna AB (publ)

and

Fujitsu Sweden AB
 
Contents
1	Background and objectives of the MSA	2
2	Agreement documents and order of priority	3
3	Definitions	4
4	Description of the services and general obligations of Fujitsu	5
5	Non-exclusivity, no volume commitment, preferred supplier additional services	6
6	Husqvarna’s IT environments as per Effective Date and Due Diligence	7
7	Transition Project and subsequent transition and transformation	7
8	Personnel	8
9	Transfer of assets and third party agreements	8
10	Provision of assets and third party agreements during the contract term	9
11	Commitments in respect of Husqvarna-owned assets and equipment	9
12	Service Levels	9
13	Application Management and Application Operation	10
14	Project Agreements	10
15	Consultancy Agreements	11
16	Prices and terms of payment	11
17	Remuneration for travel time, expenses, Overtime and on-call	13
18	Price adjustments	14
19	Benchmarking	14
20	Incentives	15
21	Requirements regarding security, environment and quality, etc.	15
22	Husqvarna’s customer commitments	16
23	Governance, co-operation, processes, tools and reporting	17
24	Contact persons for contractual matters	18
25	Collaboration with Husqvarna’s other suppliers	18
26	Use of external sub-contractors	19
27	Change of volumes of the Services	19
28	Changes to IT environments	19
29	Changes to contractual documents	20
30	Acceptance tests and approval under Project Agreement	21
31	Liability for defects and other breach of contract	22
32	Liability for delays under a Project Agreement	23
33	Step-in rights	23
34	Auditing	24
35	Confidentiality and Husqvarna Data	25
36	Insurance and risk for equipment	26
37	Personal data processing	26
38	Documentation	27
39	Intellectual property rights	27
40	Infringement of intellectual property rights	28
41	Exit activities upon termination	29
42	Limitation of liability	30
43	Force majeure	31
44	Terms of the MSA and the sub-agreements	31
45	Premature termination	31
46	Entire agreement and relation to other agreements	33
47	Assignment of agreement and right to receive payment, etc.	34
48	Option for Husqvarna’s Group Company to procure services	34
49	Non-solicitation	35
50	Announcement and publicity	35
51	Notices	35
52	Governing law and dispute resolution	35
 
 
1.1	Document version control
Changes introduced to this document according to the contract change control procedure set out in Section 29 of this main document of the Master Services Agreement shall be listed in the table below, and also in Appendix 14c - Logbook of contract changes.  

Version	Effective date of change	Comment 
1.0		Execution version
		
		
		

 
Parties
(1)	Husqvarna AB (publ), a company organized under the laws of Sweden, with Company Registration No. 556000-5331, having its registered office at Drottninggatan 2, SE-561 82 Huskvarna, Sweden ("Husqvarna”); 
and
(2)	Fujitsu Sweden AB, a corporation organized under the laws of Sweden, with Registration No. 556147- 5897, having its registered office at Kista Alléväg 1, Box 40, SE-164 93 Kista, Sweden (“Fujitsu”).

have entered into the following master services agreement with regard to delivery of IT services (the ”MSA”). 
Husqvarna and Fujitsu are referred to jointly as the “Parties” and individually as “Party”. 
1	Background and objectives of the MSA
(a)	The Husqvarna Group is the world's largest producer of outdoor power products including chainsaws, trimmers, lawn mowers and garden tractors. The Group is also the European leader in consumer watering products and one of the world leaders in cutting equipment and diamond tools for the construction and stone industries.
(b)	Fujitsu is a leading global technology and IT enterprise providing certain information technology services in software development, business process outsourcing, infrastructure management, network security services; internet professional services; network or data centre management; client server services; IT help desk services, consulting and other allied activities. 
(c)	At the time of conclusion of this MSA, Husqvarna has outsourced its global it infrastructure services and application management and operation of certain SAP systems to Fujitsu (at the time Fujitsu Services AB, Registration No. 556134- 2279, now transferred to Fujitsu) under “Master Services Agreement between Husqvarna AB and Fujitsu Services AB in respect of IT Services”, concluded on 7 December 2010 (the “Previous Contract”), which is due to terminate on 31 January 2016 for the IT infrastructure services and 31 July 2016 for the application operation and application management of certain SAP systems. In November 2014, Husqvarna issued “REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL - Project Helix: 2nd Generation IT Outsourcing” (the “RFP”) for the purpose of procuring IT services replacing the services covered by the Previous Contract. Husqvarna aimed for a multi-sourcing environment. The RFP covered Sourcing Packages 1, 2 and 3, described at high-level in Schedule 2.
(d) 	Husqvarna’s procurement based on the RFP has resulted in Fujitsu being entrusted with the continued provision of the services included in Husqvarna’s Sourcing Package 1 and Sourcing Package 3, under the terms of this MSA. Thus, the conclusion of this MSA means that the Parties will continue the cooperation they started in 2010. Provisions regarding the cut-over between the Previous Contract and this MSA are set out in Section 46.
(e)	The overall goal of this MSA is to ensure that Husqvarna will have a flexible, proactive, high quality and cost-effective delivery of IT infrastructure services included in the MSA, which contributes to that Husqvarna may fully meet the needs of its business. Husqvarna's goal of the MSA is particularly to shift from IT to business focus and increasing flexibility and adaptability in the IT services to different needs within the Husqvarna Group, in line with Husqvarna Group Strategy 2020. Husqvarna has chosen Fujitsu to be a proactive, strategic partner with ability to drive change and transformation of the IT services to Husqvarna, in order to deliver on critical business initiatives and adapt to seasonal variations and different needs in different parts of the Husqvarna Group.
(f)	The Parties’ aspiration, when moving from the Previous Contract to this MSA has been to substantially decrease the fees for the Services with essentially the same service output as under the Previous Contract. Fujitsu aims to change its mode of operation and delivery organisation, as described in Schedule 3, in order to cut its costs to be able to deliver the Services at the prices agreed in Appendix 10a.
2	Agreement documents and order of priority
2.1	The MSA consists of this main document and the following schedules, appendices and annexes:
Schedule 1 - 	Service descriptions included in MSA (cover page)
	Appendix 1a - Service description: Service Desk
		Annex 1 to Appendix 1a – Service Vendor List
		Annex 2 to Appendix 1a – Supported Products List
		Annex 3 to Appendix 1a – Telephone number for specific countries
	Appendix 1b - Service description: Software Asset Management
	Appendix 1c - Service description: End-user Services
	Appendix 1d - Service description: On-site Support
	Appendix 1e - Service description: Cross Functional Services
	Appendix 1f - Service description:  Application Management
		Annex 1 to Appendix 1f – List of AM Managed Objects
	Appendix 1g - Service description: Application Operations
		Annex 1 to Appendix 1g – List of AO Managed Objects 
	
Schedule 2 - 	Husqvarna’s systems and IT environments at time of entering into the MSA 
Schedule 3 - 	Transition and transformation (cover page)
	Appendix 3a - Description of Transition Project 1 
	Appendix 3b - Description of Transition Project 2 (including mandatory
	transformation) 
	Appendix 3c - Description of optional transformation 
	
Schedule 4 - 	Transfer of employees – NOT APPLICABLE/EXCLUDED
Schedule 5 - 	Transfer of assets and third party agreements – NOT APPLICABLE/EXCLUDED
Schedule 6 - 	Financial Responsibility Matrix
Schedule 7 - 	Service Levels framework
	Appendix 7a - Service Levels for Services

Schedule 8 - 	Governance, co-operation and reporting
Appendix 8a - Operation Model (to be drafted during the Transition Project)

Schedule 9 - 	Security and compliance requirements 
Schedule 10 - 	Prices and terms of payment 
Appendix 10a - Unit prices, rate cards, etc.
Appendix 10b - Husqvarna supplier expense policy

Schedule 11 - 	Benchmarking 
Schedule 12 - 	Services in connection with termination 
Schedule 13 - 	Template sub-agreements (cover page)
	Appendix 13a - Template Project Agreement 
	Appendix 13b - Template Consultancy Agreement

Schedule 14 - 	Contract management documents (cover page)
	Appendix 14a - Template for site specific delivery 
	Appendix 14b - Template for amendment
	Appendix 14c - Logbook of contract changes

Schedule 15 - 	Definitions
2.2	In the event of conflicting information between this main document and its schedules (as they may be changed over time), the main document shall take precedence over the schedules and the schedules shall take precedence over each other in accordance with their relative order as set out above.
2.3	In the event of conflicting information between a schedule and its appendices and annexes, the schedule shall take precedence. In the event of conflicting information between an appendix and an annex, the appendix shall take precedence. Appendices or annexes shall take precedence over each other in accordance with their relative order as set out above. 
2.4	In the event of conflicting information between the MSA on the one hand and a sub-agreement (based on the templates in Appendices 13a and 13b) or an agreement for a site specific delivery of the Services or an amendment (based on the templates in Appendices 14a and 14b) on the other hand, the latter agreements shall prevail over the MSA.
2.5	When reference is made to a schedule, the reference shall be interpreted to include any and all appendices and annexes under it appendices, where appropriate, e.g. a reference to Schedule 1 includes reference to Appendices 1a and 1b, etc. 
3	Definitions
Terms and concepts used in the MSA and the sub-agreements are defined in Schedule 15. Additional terms and concepts may be defined in the schedules, appendices and annexes of this MSA.
4	Description of the services and general obligations of Fujitsu
4.1	Fujitsu undertakes to deliver the Services in Schedule 1 (as they may be modified, replaced or extended with new Services during the contract term) to Husqvarna under the terms and conditions set out in this MSA. At the time of entering into the MSA, the Services comprise, at high level, service desk, end-user services, site specific IT support and application operation and application management of certain SAP systems and surrounding systems, predominantly used by the Husqvarna Group’s business division Gardena.
4.2	The Services shall be delivered for the benefit of service recipients (entities, sites and users) within the entire Husqvarna Group, as it changes over time and potentially to divested businesses according to Section 47.4, and to Husqvarna partners. 
4.3	The Services shall be delivered to Husqvarna as from the respective Handover Dates set out in the Project Agreement for the Transition Project referred to in Section 7.2, and the Handover Dates agreed in writing by the Parties during the term of the MSA in relation to any new Services or in relation to the delivery of a Service to a new site, entity, environment or other. See Section 7.1 and Section 46 in this context. 
4.4	The Services include such commitments and actions which are not be explicitly mentioned in Schedule 1 but which are necessary in order for Services to be delivered in the accordance with all requirements agreed in writing, except where such commitments and actions are expressly excluded from the Services or described as being the responsibility of Husqvarna. 
4.5	Fujitsu’s delivery of the Services described in Schedule 1 is a functional delivery. This means that Fujitsu, unless otherwise expressly stated in Schedule 6 (Financial Responsibility Matrix) or other parts of the MSA, is responsible for providing the hardware, software (including any requisite licenses and support agreements) and other equipment necessary to deliver the Services in accordance with the Service Levels and other agreed requirements in the MSA during the entire contract term, within the unit prices agreed in Appendix 10a. 
4.6	Fujitsu’s delivery of the Services described in Schedule 1 will mainly occur remotely. Fujitsu’s presence on-site at Husqvarna’s premises is only included in the Services to the extent this is expressly stated in the service descriptions, mainly in Appendix 1d On-site Support.
4.7	The Parties can enter into two different kinds of sub-agreements under the MSA; Project Agreements and Consultancy Agreements. Project Agreements and Consultancy Agreements are entered into by the Parties for the delivery of any services that lie outside the scope of the Services in Schedule 1, as further described in Sections 14 and 15 below. Fujitsu undertakes to comply with any request from Husqvarna to enter into sub-agreements, on the terms and conditions set out in the MSA. 
4.8	Fujitsu shall perform all of its obligations under the MSA utilising appropriate, qualified and competent staff, and by deploying sufficient resources in order to comply with agreed requirements and Specifications, and shall treat Husqvarna as a prioritized customer. Furthermore, Fujitsu undertakes not to replace staff working in certain defined key roles in the delivery (these are defined in Schedule 8) in violation of Husqvarna's wishes more often than once every twelve (12) months, unless this is motivated by objectively justifiable reasons, e.g. termination of employment, illness or parental leave. Further, Fujitsu undertakes to obtain Husqvarna’s prior approval for a replacement resource in a key role, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed. 
4.9	Fujitsu undertakes to actively support Husqvarna's work on gradual standardization and consolidation of its IT environments, for example by identifying and communicating possibilities to standardize and consolidate, and in support of Husqvarna’s work on increased use of cloud services. Furthermore, Fujitsu shall strive to design, set up and configure Husqvarna’s systems in a way that enables rational and efficient operation of Husqvarna’s IT environments, and in such a way that Husqvarna's costs for operating them will be in line with what is considered reasonable in the IT-industry. 
4.10	The Parties foresee that the Services will be developed, changed and sometimes replaced with new Services throughout the term of the MSA. Some changes will be a result of Fujitsu’s continuous improvement of its standard services in order to reflect technical development and innovations in the IT industry. Other changes will be suggested by Fujitsu specifically for Husqvarna. Within the meeting fora described in Schedule 8, Fujitsu undertakes to continuously share with Husqvarna its roadmap for improvements of its standard services, and replacement of the standard services with new services, and describe how Husqvarna specifically can benefit from such improvements, and what potential transformation activities are needed in order for Husqvarna to achieve the benefits. 
4.11	Further, Fujitsu undertakes to be proactive in continually proposing measures to Husqvarna for the improvement and streamlining of those parts of Husqvarna's IT environments which are covered by Fujitsu's Services, and to maintain and continually update a list of proposals for specific changes that could be made to Husqvarna’s Services and IT environments in order for Husqvarna to achieve a quality increase or a cost decrease.
5	Non-exclusivity, no volume commitment, preferred supplier additional services
5.1	Fujitsu is not granted any exclusive rights to deliver the Services or any purchase volume commitments by Husqvarna. However, the price model described in Schedule 10 regulates changes to the unit prices due to volume changes and the Parties have also agreed upon a Service Fee Renegotiation Threshold in relation to the Services, under which renegotiation of all unit prices take place, as further described in Schedule 10. Further, should Husqvarna decide to terminate a Service Tower for convenience, as further described in Section 45.3, termination fees shall be paid by Husqvarna.
5.2	Fujitsu is not granted any exclusive rights to provide Husqvarna with projects or consultancy services referred to in Sections 14 and 15. However, the Parties agree that Fujitsu is Husqvarna’s preferred supplier under the MSA for any project and consultancy services concerning the Services in Schedule 1 and shall as such always be given the opportunity to tender for such services and, subject to its tender in all material respects (including Husqvarna specific knowledge) being equal to alternative tenders received by Husqvarna, be chosen as the supplier of such services. See Section 3.7 in Schedule 10 in this context.
6	Husqvarna’s IT environments as per Effective Date and Due Diligence 
6.1	Husqvarna’s IT environments, as they stand at the time of execution of the MSA, are described at a high level in Schedule 2. 
6.2	Fujitsu is Husqvarna’s incumbent supplier of the Services in Schedule 1. Prior to entering into the MSA, Fujitsu has also conducted a due diligence on Husqvarna’s IT environments, third party contracts and other areas that Fujitsu has deemed relevant in order to clarify the circumstances that are relevant to Fujitsu's ability to deliver the Services in accordance with the agreed requirements. Fujitsu, Husqvarna’s incumbent supplier, has had access to relevant IT environments.
6.3	Where Fujitsu considers that it has not had access to certain information that it believes is relevant to the provision of the Services or the agreed prices, the resulting assumptions made by Fujitsu in the absence of such information, is specified in Schedule 1 and/or Appendix 10.1.
7	Transition Project and subsequent transition and transformation 
7.1	Fujitsu will provide an initial Transition Project in order to establish the delivery of the Services and in order to adapt the Services to comply with the agreed requirements as from the Handover Dates. As described in Section 46, there are two separate Handover Dates, 1 February 2016 and 1 August 2016, the Transition Project will be regulated under two separate Project Agreements, Transition Project 1 and Transition Project 2, of which the first is signed on Effective Date and the latter will be signed in the spring of 2016. Transition Project 2 will also include certain mandatory transformation to take place during 2016 (to some extent after Handover Date 1 August 2016). See the high-level descriptions of the projects in Appendices 3a and 3b. Transition Project 1 and Transition Project 2 include all activities needed in order for Fujitsu to deliver the Services in accordance with the agreed requirements from the agreed Handover Dates, respectively, except however certain functionality, which require the transformation activities to be completed after the Handover Dates, as described in Appendix 3a and Appendix 3b.
7.2	A Project Agreement regulating Transition Project 1 has been concluded under this MSA, on the same day as this MSA, which describes Transition Project 1 in detail. The Project Agreement includes a detailed project plan and a Specification. The detailed plan describes Fujitsu’s activities, and also Fujitsu’s expectation as regards resources and deliverables from Husqvarna, or other assumptions made by Fujitsu, as well as a detailed timetable for the activities to be performed by each Party in the Transition Project. The Project Agreement regulating Transition Project 2, to be signed in the spring of 2016, will have the equivalent content.
7.3	Prior to the Handover Dates, Fujitsu shall demonstrate to Husqvarna that it is able to deliver each of the Services from the agreed Handover Dates by way of an acceptance test, the details of which are to be agreed during the Transition Project. The provisions set out in Section 30 regarding acceptance tests and approval shall apply. The acceptance criteria to be used in the Transition Project are set out in the Project Agreement. 
7.4	In the event of any delay to a Handover Date, due to circumstances for which Fujitsu is liable, Husqvarna is entitled to the sanctions set out in the MSA. In particular, see Section 32 with regard to delay and general damages and Section 45 with regard to premature termination of the MSA. See in this context Section 22.2 and Section 22.3 regarding delays caused by Husqvarna. 
7.5	When new entities or sites become part of the Husqvarna Group, and Husqvarna wishes for such new entities or sites to receive the Services in Schedule 1, there may be need for subsequent transitions to be carried through. Further, the Parties foresee that the Services delivered by Fujitsu will be subject to transformation after the agreed Handover Dates. The Parties will enter into separate Project Agreements under the MSA to regulate transitions and/or transformations to take place.
7.6	Fujitsu has proposed transformation activities to Husqvarna in response to Husqvarna’s RFP which are set out in Appendix 3c. The transformation activities described in Appendix 3c are optional for Husqvarna.
8	Personnel
8.1	The Parties do not envisage that any employees will be transferred from Husqvarna to Fujitsu in connection with and/or as a result of entering into the MSA. The Parties agree that neither the Transfers of Undertakings Directive 2001/23/EC nor any implementations thereof into the local legislations of the EU/EEA countries, nor any similar legislation in non-EU/EEA territories (the “Employment Legislation”), will apply in connection with the MSA. 
8.2	If any employees were to transfer under the Employment Legislation, the Parties shall in good faith agree upon how to handle such transfer commercially. If the Parties cannot agree on how to commercially handle such transfer, Husqvarna will, without limitation, indemnify and hold Fujitsu (and Fujitsu Group Company if applicable) harmless from any and all losses and costs (including any redundancy costs and any costs which pertain to the period prior to the date of transfer) suffered or incurred by Fujitsu as a result of any claim brought against Fujitsu, based on actual rights under the Employment Legislation to transfer personnel from Husqvarna (including Husqvarna Group Companies) to Fujitsu, as a consequence of entering into this MSA.
9	Transfer of assets and third party agreements
9.1	As per Effective Date, no transfer of assets to Fujitsu is foreseen and Schedule 5 is excluded from the MSA. However, the Parties agree that where Husqvarna requires Fujitsu to take ownership of any assets, subject to the Parties agreeing the commercial and/or operational impact via the Contract Change Procedure in Schedule 8, Fujitsu shall assume ownership of assets at net book value or residual value under the applicable lease agreements.
9.2	As per Effective Date, no transfer of third party agreements to Fujitsu is foreseen and Schedule 5 is excluded from the MSA. The Parties agree that where Fujitsu takes over third party agreements from Husqvarna (or a Husqvarna third party supplier), a separate novation agreement may be required to transfer such agreements. 
10	Provision of assets and third party agreements during the contract term
10.1	As regards the provision of assets and third party contracts during the term of the MSA, Section 4.5 and Schedule 6 apply. 
10.2	Fujitsu will manage Husqvarna third party suppliers of IT services and/or licenses and support, as part of Fujitsu's Services to the extent described in Schedule 1. For the avoidance of doubt, Husqvarna shall pay all charges for the products and services under its own third party agreements. 
10.3	Husqvarna undertakes to ensure that the relevant third parties are informed that their contracts with Husqvarna will be administered by Fujitsu from the relevant Handover Dates, unless Fujitsu has already established contacts with such third parties. 
11	Commitments in respect of Husqvarna-owned assets and equipment 
Fujitsu’s Services in Schedule 1 are the same, irrespective of which Party owns/provides the assets and software included in Fujitsu’s delivery. This means that when equipment or software within the scope of Fujitsu's delivery is owned by or licensed to Husqvarna, Fujitsu will handle all errors and defects in such equipment or software in accordance with incident management and other relevant processes in Appendix 1e, and also in accordance with the Service Levels in Schedule 7. Fujitsu’s management of incidents in Husqvarna owned or licensed equipment or software is included in the fixed monthly fee for the Services.
12	Service Levels
12.1	Fujitsu undertakes to deliver its services in accordance with the Service Levels framework set out in Schedule 7 and the Service Levels specified in Appendix 7a, as they may be amended from time to time within the agreed change management process. 
12.2	Measuring and reporting shall commence as from the agreed Handover Date for the relevant Service, at the latest. Fujitsu shall measure and report the Service Levels in accordance with the requirements set out in Schedule 7, using data from the data input sources set out in Appendix 7a. The tools to be used are listed in Schedule 6. If tools provided by Husqvarna for Service Level reporting should not allow Fujitsu to measure and report in accordance with the agreed requirements, Husqvarna will supplement the relevant tools, or the Parties shall agree on how to otherwise handle any gaps. As per Effective Date, Husqvarna is planning to replace its ITSM Toolset during 2016 (such changes to be handled in relation to Fujitsu as part of Transition Project 2), Husqvarna may therefore decide not to supplement the existing tool to allow all measurement according to Appendix 7a.
12.3	Service Levels that concern the Services in Schedule 1 shall be maintained by Fujitsu, and shall be subject to Service Level Credits to the extent that they are assigned as SLAs (not KPIs) as from the respective Handover Dates, unless otherwise agreed. 
12.4	In event of a Service Level Default, as described in Schedule 7, Husqvarna is entitled to Service Level Credits in accordance with Schedule 7. Reporting of Service Levels and reconciliation of Service Level Credits for Service Level Defaults shall take place on a monthly basis, as described in Schedule 7 and Schedule 8. Fujitsu shall deduct Service Level Credits from the first monthly invoice sent out by Fujitsu after a confirmed Service Level Default. 
12.5	For any given calendar month, there is a maximum cap - At-Risk Amount - for Service Level Credits (and any other agreed and predefined penalties in relation to Service Levels). Such At-Risk Amount shall equal fifteen (15) % of the fees for the Services in the relevant calendar month (see tab “Unit prices for the Services” in Appendix 10a).
12.6	In addition to the Service Level Credits set out above, Husqvarna is entitled to compensation for any direct and documented damages resulting from deviations to Minimum Service Levels in Schedule 7 that are in excess of the value of the Service Level Credits, within the limitations set out in Section 42.
13	Application Management and Application Operation
The Application Management Services in Appendix 1f and the Application Operation Services in Appendix 1g shall be delivered in relation to the Managed Objects defined in the Annexes Schedules 1f and 1g, respectively.
14	Project Agreements
14.1	Project Agreements shall be entered into under the MSA when Fujitsu is requested to deliver services (outside the Services) on a project basis, i.e. with responsibility for delivering a specified result. When Husqvarna orders a project, a Project Agreement shall normally be signed, using the template sub-agreement/Project Agreement in Appendix 13a. However, the Parties may agree upon an alternative process for Husqvarna to request and order projects (for example a change note).
14.2	In a Project Agreement, the Parties shall agree the functional, technical and other relevant requirement for the result to be delivered by Fujitsu in a Specification. In addition to the Specification, the Project Agreement shall contain a timetable and a Stipulated Approval Date. The terms and conditions for acceptance testing, approval, liability for defects and delays are set out in Sections 30 - 32 below.
14.3	Fujitsu shall be proactive in assisting Husqvarna in defining and describing its requirements for a Project, analysing impact and assuring quality, for example by giving feedback on ideas and draft requirements and draw to Husqvarna’s attention if any ideas or requirements deviate from standard solutions. Fujitsu’s assistance in connection with the initiation of Projects shall be provided free of charge, unless otherwise agreed. Appendix 1f contains some principles as regards performance of projects related to Application Development.
14.4	Husqvarna shall be given the opportunity to interview and approve the consultants who are to be assigned to key roles in a project, such as the project manager, architects, team leaders, etc. If Husqvarna, for objective justifiable reasons, requests that a consultant in a key role in a project is replaced, Fujitsu shall upon receipt of reasonable notice replace the consultant without undue delay, and Husqvarna shall incur no additional cost as a result of the replacement.
14.5	Projects can be delivered either on a time and material basis, at a fixed price, or based on a risk share model, depending on what is agreed in each case. If a fixed price is agreed, the Project Agreement shall include a payment plan. For projects charged on a time and material basis, the rates set out in Appendix 10a apply.
14.6	The project management tool to be used is Husqvarna Project Management HPM (project.husqvarna.net), unless otherwise agreed.
15	Consultancy Agreements
15.1	A Consultancy Agreement shall be entered into under the MSA when Husqvarna wants Fujitsu to provide services (outside the Services) in the form of consultancy resources. 
15.2	When Husqvarna orders consultancy resources, a Consultancy Agreement will normally be signed, based on the template sub-agreement/Consultancy Agreement in Appendix 13b. However, the Parties may agree upon an alternative process for Husqvarna to request and order consultancy resources.
15.3	Husqvarna shall be given the opportunity to approve the consultants who are to perform work under a Consultancy Agreement. If the Consultancy Agreement specifies different competence levels for consultants, the classification of each consultant into a particular competence level shall be approved by Husqvarna.
15.4	If Husqvarna, for objective justifiable reasons, should request that a consultant is replaced, Fujitsu shall upon receipt of reasonable notice replace the consultant without undue delay, and Husqvarna shall incur no additional cost as a result of the replacement (such as costs for knowledge transfer to the replacement consultant).
15.5	Consultancy resources are provided on a time and material basis. The rates set out in Appendix 10a apply.
16	Prices and terms of payment
16.1	Fujitsu is entitled to remuneration for its services in accordance with the terms set out in this MSA and its Schedule 10, and in any sub-agreement.
16.2	For the Services provided, Fujitsu will invoice monthly fees based on the unit prices set out in Appendix 10a. For services delivered on a time and material basis, the rate cards, currencies and volume discounts in Appendix 10a apply, unless otherwise agreed. 
16.3	As regards the period between 1 February 2016 and 31 July 2016, the following shall apply:
(i)	The services delivered by the former TDS organisation (as described in the Previous Contract), including the CPE pool and the on-site support activities in Heuchlingen, Ulm and Laichingen, will be charged at the prices set out and described in the Previous Contract until the Handover Date 1 August 2016, when the prices in Appendix 10a shall apply also for such services (as described in Appendix 1f and Appendix 1g). 
(ii)	Also the rate cards in the Previous Contract shall apply until the Handover Date 1 August 2016 for services delivered on a time and material basis that are related to the above mentioned services, as well as for in-flight projects that were initiated under the Previous Contract, for example the exit services regarding Sourcing Package 2 of the RFP (see Section 1c).
(iii)	The only exception to the above is that lines items “ST1.0: Production Storage”, “ST2.0: Non-Production Storage”, “BT1.0: Standard Backup”, “BT1.1: Advanced Tape Backup incl. Snapshot” and “Citrix for SAP Environment” in Appendix 10a underpinning the PaaS Service for Application Management and Appendix 1g shall be invoiced according to Appendix 10a already as of 1 February 2016. 
(iv)	No cross-functional services will be charged according to the price list in the Previous Contract from 1 February 2016. The following line items shall be according to Appendix 10a for all Services as from 1 February 2016:“Base Delivery of IT Services (SEK based)” and “Base Delivery of IT Services (EUR based)” in Appendix 10a.
(v)	If there is a Minor Change Request ticket backlog regarding the ADM Services under the Previous Contract, as per 1 August 2016, such ticket backlog shall be handled by Fujitsu   within the monthly fees paid according to the price list of the Previous Contract, i.e. shall not consume Prepaid Pool under the MSA. (See Section 4.3 in Schedule 10 about the Prepaid Pool.)
16.4	As regards the period between 1 February 2019 and 31 July 2019 (or equivalent time in a later year, if the Services should be extended beyond the Initial Contract Terms), the following shall apply:
(i)	The prices to be charged for the base delivery (governance, cross functional etc.) when delivered only in relation to the Services in Appendix 1f (Application Management) and Appendix 1g (Application Operations), shall equal seventy (70) % of each of the line items “Base Delivery of IT Services (SEK based)” and “Base Delivery of IT Services (EUR based)” in Appendix 10a.
16.5	Where the agreed unit prices relate to volumes of hardware or software, invoicing shall reflect the actual volumes ordered by/delivered to Husqvarna, which shall be correctly reflected in the CMDB or other tool approved by Husqvarna. Fujitsu’s invoice specification shall be withdrawn from such tools. However, for a period of time after each of the two Handover Dates, respectively, Fujitsu may instead invoice the baseline volumes in Appendix 10a, as regulated in Schedule 10. 
16.6	Appendix 10a reflects the baseline volumes of the Services. True-up/verification of the volumes shall be performed by the Parties during the two (2) months following each respective Handover Date, and the baseline volumes may also be adjusted by the Parties after the true up calibration, as regulated in Schedule 10.
16.7	The fees to be paid by Husqvarna for the Transition Project are (the “Transition Charges”) set out in Appendix 10a. Invoicing shall take place at Milestones defined in Schedule 10 and further described in the Project Agreements for the Transition Project 1 and Transition Project 2 (including mandatory transformation), respectively. The fees to be paid by Husqvarna for any subsequent optional transition and transformation shall be regulated in the relevant Project Agreement.
16.8	All fees owed under this Agreement for the Services or services delivered under sub-agreements are stated in SEK or EUR, or other agreed currency as set out in Appendix 10a, exclusive of tax, levy, or similar governmental charge that may be assessed by any jurisdiction, including without limitation, any export, or local VAT, lease tax, sales, use of goods and service tax and excise duty. The Parties acknowledge that any and all such taxes and levies arising on payments in connection with this MSA (including any sub-agreement) shall be added and charged in addition to fees, or deducted and withheld from fees, as required by the applicable tax regulations. Any and all such taxes and levies charged or deducted shall be carried by the Party that is liable to named taxes or levies under the applicable tax regulations.
16.9	Invoicing principles and requirements are set out in Schedule 10. 
16.10	All invoices to Husqvarna (except any local invoices) shall be sent by e-mail to accounts.payable@husqvarnagroup.com. Husqvarna shall pay the invoiced amount within sixty (60) days of receipt of the invoice. The invoice must not contain billing or handling fees. Payment shall be made to the payment address stated on the invoice. 
16.11	In event of late payment under the MSA or a sub-agreement, the Party in default shall pay default interest to the effect of (2) two percentage points above STIBOR interbank lending rate prevailing at each point in time.
16.12	Husqvarna and Fujitsu both have the right to withhold payment of a disputed invoice from the other, in respect of the disputed amount, provided that the complaint about the invoice is lodged, within thirty (30) days, specifying the reason for the complaint. Unless the invoiced Party agrees that the other Party's complaint is correct, Husqvarna and Fujitsu shall immediately commence negotiations in order to resolve the disagreement. Where the Parties agree, the agreed amount and, where applicable, default interest shall be paid immediately. For the avoidance of doubt, interest is calculated from the due date of the original invoice. 
17	Remuneration for travel time, expenses, Overtime and on-call
Remuneration for travel time, expenses, Overtime and on-call are regulated in Schedule 10. 
18	Price adjustments
18.1	The unit prices to be paid by Husqvarna for the Services are described in Appendix 10a. No index adjustment applies, i.e. indexation is built into the agreed unit prices for the Initial Contract Terms of the MSA set out in Section 44.1.
18.2	Before Husqvarna is to decide whether to exercise its option under Section 44.1 to extend the Initial Contract Term of the MSA, the Parties shall negotiate the unit prices and rate cards to apply during the potential extension term(s). The unit prices and rate cards to apply in the extension term(s) shall be negotiated during the last Year of the Initial Contract Terms, respectively, in accordance with Schedule 10.
18.3	The Parties have agreed a Service Fee Renegotiation Threshold for the Services provided under the MSA, set out in Schedule 10, under which renegotiation of all unit prices may take place according to the principles set out in Schedule 10. 
18.4	Fujitsu has based the unit prices for the Services on a number of price assumptions set out in Appendix 10a. In the event that any deviation in such price assumptions arises during the term of the MSA, the monthly unit prices may be subject to price review and price adjustment according to the principles set out in Appendix 10a. The price assumptions that may lead to price review and price adjustment are exhaustively listed in Appendix 10a. 
18.5	The unit prices for the Services may also be adjusted as a result of benchmark¬ing in accordance with Section 19. 
18.6	Fujitsu shall adjust the hourly rates in the rate cards in Appendix 10a (to apply for consultancy services and projects) once per year as from the commencement of Year 2 (counted from 1 February 2016 for all rate cards). The indices to be used are set out in Schedule 10.
18.7	No price review or price adjustment can be made during the contract term of this MSA, except as expressly provided for in the MSA, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Parties.
19	Benchmarking 
19.1	Husqvarna has the right to request benchmarking of Fujitsu’s unit prices for the Services in accordance with Schedule 11 once per year, but no earlier than eighteen (18) months from the Handover Date for the Services to be benchmarked, in order to examine whether Fujitsu's unit prices for the Services are Competitive Prices on the basis of a comparison with Comparable Services in a Reference Group.
19.2	If the Benchmarking Company's report concludes that benchmarked unit prices do not constitute Competitive Prices, Fujitsu will decrease its unit prices so that they are Competitive Prices, in accordance with the provisions in Schedule 11. 
19.3	Husqvarna shall bear the external cost for hiring the Benchmarking Company, unless the benchmarking concludes that Fujitsu’s prices are not Competitive Prices, in which case the costs for the benchmarking company shall be split equally between the Parties. Each Party bears its own internal costs in connection with the benchmarking. 
20	Incentives
20.1	The Parties agree that if Fujitsu presents proposals for change (that Husqvarna has not identified) that both Parties agree reduce Husqvarna’s IT costs (beside the cost of Fujitsu’s Services), for example by optimising, consolidating or improving the efficiency of Husqvarna's IT environments or processes, beyond what is included in Fujitsu’s Services, and if Husqvarna decides to implement such proposed change, Fujitsu shall be rewarded. Fujitsu’s reward shall be equal to half of Husqvarna's actual and measurable cost savings during the first twelve (12) months after Husqvarna’s cost reduction measure comes into effect. Payment shall be made in instalments as an addition to the monthly fee for the Services. 
20.2	The details of how such rewards shall be calculated and paid shall be agreed by the Parties in connection with entering into the sub-agreement regarding implementation of the change proposed by Fujitsu. In order for the incentive model in Section 20.1 to apply, it is a prerequisite that the Parties have reached agreement on the details of calculation and payment. For the avoidance of doubt, in addition to the incentive, Fujitsu will be paid for the efforts spent by Fujitsu resources to implement the proposed change under any such relevant Project Agreement and/or Consultancy Agreement.
21	Requirements regarding security, environment and quality, etc.
21.1	All of Fujitsu’s commitments must be carried out professionally and in accordance with in accordance with good IT practice. The requirements in Section 4 above shall be complied with. Furthermore, Fujitsu shall deliver its services in accordance with ITIL as outlined in Appendix 1e, and shall adapt its processes to Husqvarna’s processes at the interface between the Parties.
21.2	All actions taken by Fujitsu shall be performed in accordance with the methods and procedures agreed by the Parties or - in the absence thereof - in accordance with formal, standardised and documented methods and procedures generally accepted in the IT industry. Information on such methods and procedures shall be provided to Husqvarna on request. 
21.3	Fujitsu shall meet the security requirements set out or referred to in Schedule 9, as well as any other written instructions from Husqvarna from time to time relating to security, subject to 21.8. 
21.4	Fujitsu shall comply with Husqvarna’s Code of Conduct and other compliance policies, available on Husqvarna’s Intranet for Fujitsu’s staff working onsite at Husqvarna’s premises.
21.5	Fujitsu shall comply with Husqvarna’s Environmental Policy, available on the Husqvarna’s Intranet for Fujitsu’s staff working onsite at Husqvarna’s premises.
21.6	Fujitsu shall deliver its services in accordance with ISO 14001, ISO 9000, ISO/IEC 19770 and ISO 27000 standards or similar standards as applicable and approved by Husqvarna, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
21.7	Fujitsu shall comply with all laws and governmental regulations applicable to Fujitsu as a company or in its capacity as a supplier of services. Furthermore, Fujitsu undertakes to comply with the instructions provided by Husqvarna in writing from time to time which aim to ensure that Fujitsu’s services allow Husqvarna to comply with all laws and governmental regulations applicable to Husqvarna, subject to 21.8.
21.8	If changes in laws and governmental regulations or standards, or changes in Husqvarna’s internal policies, processes and instructions, make it necessary to implement changes in services delivered by Fujitsu, such changes shall be handled according to the agreed change management process. The following shall apply (taking into account the terms set out in Schedule 10):
(i)	Fujitsu is entitled to reimbursement from Husqvarna for any documented costs caused by changes in the services or IT environments due to Husqvarna being subject of changed or new laws and regulations; 
(ii) 	Fujitsu is entitled to reimbursement from Husqvarna for any documented costs caused by changes in the services or IT environments due to changes in Husqvarna's internal policies, processes or instructions;
(iii) 	Any costs incurred due to Fujitsu being subject of changed or new laws and regulations as a company or in its capacity as a supplier of services, shall be borne by Fujitsu; 
(iv)	Any costs incurred that related to tools integration shall be handled in accordance with Section 7 in Schedule 10; and
(v)	Any costs incurred by Fujitsu as a result of changes to applicable standards as referred to in Section 21.6 shall be borne by Fujitsu.
22	Husqvarna’s customer commitments
22.1	In order for Fujitsu to perform its obligations under the MSA and any sub-agreements entered into under the MSA, Husqvarna is responsible for the following:
(i)	Providing, upon Fujitsu’s request, information about the conditions and circumstances within the Husqvarna Group that is necessary in order for Fujitsu to perform its obligations;
(ii)	Informing Fujitsu about any changes in the Husqvarna Group that may affect the volume of its Services;
(iii) 	Providing office space and any agreed equipment for Fujitsu’s staff working at Husqvarna’s sites;
(iv)	Providing connectivity/bandwidth in accordance with Schedule 6;
(v) 	Allowing integration to Husqvarna’s ITSM Toolset and ensuring possibility to receive/accept data transferred from Fujitsu’s tools. See Section 23.5.
(vi) Providing access to Husqvarna’s development, test, QA (quality assurance), and production environments as needed for the Services; 
(vii)	Maintaining licenses and maintenance agreements with third-party product suppliers, in relation to standard third-party products, in accordance with Schedule 6; 
(viii)	Fulfilling any undertakings expressly assumed by Husqvarna under a sub-agreement to this MSA; 
(ix) 	Performing its customer commitments with appropriately qualified, skilled staff and adequate resources; 
(x)   When reasonably required by Fujitsu, give Fujitsu and its sub-contractors access to and assistance from Husqvarna staff (including Husqvarna Group Companies) well acquainted with Husqvarna’s organization, operation and internal routines; and
(xi)  In general cooperate with Fujitsu (including Fujitsu Group Companies and subcontractors) to the extent reasonably necessary in order for Fujitsu to perform its obligations under the MSA and any sub-agreement.
22.2	If Fujitsu is of the opinion that Husqvarna (or a third party for whom Husqvarna is responsible) has not fulfilled a commitment for which Husqvarna is responsible, Fujitsu shall as soon as possible notify Husqvarna thereof in writing (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by e-mail or a note in the minutes from a governance meeting), and shall describe, to the extent it is reasonably capable of doing so, the impact that Fujitsu believes the non-fulfilment has or is likely to have, such as delays or additional costs. 
22.3	Provided that Fujitsu has notified Husqvarna of a non-fulfilment according to Section 22.2, Fujitsu shall be entitled to compensation for any additional and direct cost incurred by Fujitsu due to the non-fulfilment. Fujitsu undertakes to act to limit the effect of non-fulfilment on Husqvarna's side. In the event of any delay in a project delivered by Fujitsu, due to circumstances for which Husqvarna is liable, Fujitsu shall also be entitled to time extension corresponding to the impact of the delay to Fujitsu.
23	Governance, co-operation, processes, tools and reporting
23.1	A governance model is set out in Schedule 8 to this MSA. This model describes the forms of collaboration that will apply at the interface between the Parties, such as expected roles, key roles, forum for management and decision-making, escalation procedures, reporting requirements etc. Each Party carries its own costs for governance.
23.2	Appendix 1e describes the operational collaboration between Husqvarna and Fujitsu in more detail. Husqvarna and Fujitsu shall independently, and without cost to the other Party, provide the resources needed to manage the agreed processes. 
23.3	The Parties shall use the tools described in Schedule 6, as updated from time to time (which however is not an exhaustive list of tools to be used). 
23.4	The Parties agree that where the MSA and the sub-agreements do not specify equipment, tools, methods, processes and resources, Fujitsu shall determine what equipment, tools, methods, processes and resources it shall use to deliver the Services.
23.5	Notwithstanding the principles set out in Section Error! Reference source not found., the Parties agree as follows in relation to the ITSM Toolset. (See also the image in Appendix 1e in this context.)
(i)	Husqvarna’s ITSM Toolset shall be the primary source of ticket information and reporting data. In case Fujitsu uses alternative tools, those tools must be integrated to Husqvarna ITSM Toolset in such a way that all necessary ticket information that is needed to report in accordance with the MSA can be transferred to Husqvarna ITSM Toolset. Fujitsu must ensure the feasibility of such integration. The cost will be borne as per Schedule 10. 
(ii)	In case Husqvarna changes its ITSM Toolset data requirements (i.e. requirements on data to be transferred through integration from Fujitsu’s own tools) due to new or improved processes, Fujitsu shall support and ensure such changes are implemented within Fujitsu tools. The cost for such changes will be borne as per Schedule 10.
23.6	On request from Husqvarna, Fujitsu shall add software inventory agents provided by Husqvarna, such as ILMT to all relevant parts of the IT environments used by Fujitsu in its deliveries to Husqvarna. If Fujitsu should not be able to install such third party software inventory agents in environments shared by several customers, Fujitsu shall ensure in another way that is acceptable to the third party product supplier that Husqvarna is able to report its usage of the third party product. 
23.7	Fujitsu shall ensure to install Husqvarna’s software inventory tools (e.g. Snow) in the relevant IT environments (servers and workstations), hosted or operated by Fujitsu. 
23.8	For the avoidance of doubt, if additions of software inventory agents/tools described in Section 23.6 and 23.7 impacts the Services or Fujitsu’s ability to deliver the Services, Fujitsu will not be liable for such impacts and Husqvarna shall compensate Fujitsu for its documented direct costs to Fujitsu's IT environments caused by such additions.
23.9	If and when Fujitsu uses developer licenses in its delivery to Husqvarna, Fujitsu shall work in a way that requires as few developer licenses as possible, Fujitsu must always obtain Husqvarna’s approval prior to purchase of additional developer licenses or other licenses used by Fujitsu to the extent that Husqvarna shall bear the cost for any such licenses.
23.10	Fujitsu’s obligations in regard to reporting are described in Schedule 8 and also, as regards Service Levels, in Schedule 7.
24	Contact persons for contractual matters
	Each Party shall have a contact person responsible for contractual matters. The roles/titles of the contact persons responsible for contractual matters are set out in Schedule 8. These persons are not entitled to amend, change or rescind this MSA or any sub-agreement, except where this right is specifically and unequivocally given to such person therein.
25	Collaboration with Husqvarna’s other suppliers
25.1	Fujitsu’s delivery will require collaboration with Husqvarna's other suppliers of IT services, such as Husqvarna’s supplier of hosting and network services, in order to ensure effective and efficient service integration. Such collaboration will partly take place in the multi-vendor forum described in Schedule 8. Fujitsu shall enter into agreements with Husqvarna’s IT-providers where this is necessary to clarify the interfaces and cooperation between Fujitsu and such other supplier. Husqvarna shall procure that such other Husqvarna suppliers co-operate with Fujitsu to the extent reasonably required for Fujitsu to negotiate such agreement between Fujitsu and other IT-providers of Husqvarna and to deliver the services. Where suitable, Parties will enter into a tripartite agreement.
25.2	Fujitsu may not invoke interface problems against Husqvarna on the basis of any demarcation problems that may arise between Fujitsu and Husqvarna’s other appointed suppliers. This means that if a technical problem occurs, and it is not possible to determine whether the technical problem arose in IT environments for which Fujitsu is responsible, or in an IT environment that is controlled by another supplier, Fujitsu shall cooperate with the other supplier until they are able to agree on the source of the problem (subject to a formal opportunity for such cooperation being available).
26	Use of external sub-contractors
26.1	Fujitsu has the right to use sub-contractors in the course of its delivery to Husqvarna, provided that the sub-contractor concerned has been approved by Husqvarna in advance in writing. The sub-contractors approved by Husqvarna at the Effective Date are listed in Schedule 6. Husqvarna can only refuse Fujitsu’s use of a sub-contractor for objective reasons.
26.2	As sub-contractor for the purpose of this Section 26.1 shall not be considered suppliers of hardware or software products, labour contracted and managed by Fujitsu or other parties without any decision leeway working under the management control of Fujitsu.
26.3	Notwithstanding Section 26.1, Fujitsu shall always have the right to use a Fujitsu Group Company as sub-contractor, subject to the provisions in Section 37.3.
26.4	Fujitsu is liable for the sub-contractor (Group Companies as well as external sub-contractors) in the same way as for itself.
26.5	Fujitsu shall take commercially reasonably endeavours to ensure that Husqvarna’s audit in accordance with the MSA covers its sub-contractor's business/sub-contractors’ businesses in the same way as it covers Fujitsu's own business.
27	Change of volumes of the Services 
Husqvarna is entitled to increase or decrease the volumes of the Services based on changes in the needs of the Husqvarna Group over time. The monthly fees for the Services will be increased or decreased accordingly, as described in Schedule 10.
28	Changes to IT environments
28.1	All changes to IT environments, irrespective of whether they are initiated by Fujitsu or Husqvarna, will be managed and documented in accordance with the agreed change management process described in Appendix 1e. The Parties shall, where necessary, agree on the terms and conditions for the change. 
28.2	Fujitsu may not implement changes to IT environments which necessitate consequential amendments to Husqvarna’s business applications or interfaces, or which necessitate changes to Husqvarna’s IT environments, without Husqvarna’s written approval. If the change proposed by Fujitsu is required for Fujitsu to deliver the Services as agreed, and if Husqvarna should disagree to, and thus hinder, the change, Fujitsu shall be entitled to charge Husqvarna for any direct and documented additional cost for adapting the Services for Husqvarna.
28.3	Fujitsu may request Husqvarna to upgrade standard software programs in Husqvarna IT environments, when the third-party product supplier concerned has ceased or advised that it will cease to provide support and maintenance in relation to the version used by Husqvarna, and this has an adverse impact on the environment and/or Fujitsu’s possibility to comply with the agreed service levels. If Husqvarna should decide not to upgrade the standard third-party product, and this should cause a Service Level Default, see exception from Fujitsu’s liability in Schedule 7.
28.4	Fujitsu’s work with the change management process, including analysis of the consequences of any requested change, is included in the monthly fees for the Services and in the fixed price for the Project Agreement (where a fixed price is agreed), unless otherwise expressly agreed in each individual case. When, in Fujitsu’s reasonable opinion, a pre-study is needed to analyse and/or make a proposal in relation to a change request from Husqvarna, the Parties should agree upon separate payment and reasonable time for the necessary activities. Fujitsu will make a proposal for a paid pre-study of the costs and implications for the requested change.
29	Changes to contractual documents
29.1	Amendments and additions to the contractual documents forming part of the MSA or the sub-agreements are only valid where they are made in writing by the authorised representatives of the Parties in accordance with the contract change control process set out in Schedule 8. 
29.2	Changes to Schedule 6, Appendix 7a and Appendix 10a may be done in the relevant governance forum in Schedule 8, i.e. without need to comply with the contract change control process set out in Schedule 8, except where a change has commercial implications for either Party. 
29.3	The template amendment in Appendix 14b may be used by the Parties to agree upon a change to the MSA or to a sub-agreement. The template amendment in Appendix 14a may be used to agree upon a site specific (or entity specific or other specific) delivery of the Services described in Appendix 1d. Appendix 14a may also be used to document a delivery of the continuous Services in Schedule 1, when such Services shall be invoiced locally according to agreement by the Parties.
29.4	Upon Husqvarna’s request, Fujitsu shall without charge produce and update drafts of all those amended and/or new contract documents which are planned to be negotiated and included in the MSA or a sub-agreement.
29.5	All amendments and additions to the MSA’s existing documents shall be entered in the logbook of contract changes, Appendix 14c. For the avoidance of doubt, changes to concluded Project Agreements and Consultancy Agreements are not entered into the logbook in Appendix 14c.
29.6	The Parties shall hold their own respective original copies of the MSA and the sub-agreements, but shall also keep electronic copies of all contract documents, as amended from time to time, in a common repository.
29.7	For the avoidance of doubt, each Party bears its own cost for contract management, negotiations of amendments etc.
30	Acceptance tests and approval under Project Agreement
30.1	Where deliveries are made under a Project Agreement, an acceptance test (which may be a technical or functional test or an equivalent sign-off procedure to verify deliverables) shall be conducted in accordance with this Section 30. Husqvarna shall verify that the delivery meets the agreed Specification during a test period. Unless otherwise set out in the timetable under the Project Agreement, the test period shall encompass twenty (20) calendar days before the Stipulated Approval Date. Acceptance test methodology and acceptance criteria shall be agreed by the Parties.
30.2	Minutes shall be kept of the acceptance test, which minutes shall be in writing and approved and signed by both Parties. After correction by Fujitsu of defects identified by Husqvarna, Husqvarna shall have an opportunity and an obligation to perform a new acceptance test to verify that the identified defects have been corrected. The Parties shall agree upon changes to the time plan for the acceptance test, if needed.
30.3	Husqvarna shall approve the delivery when the Specification according to the acceptance criteria is met and the delivery does not differ from what may be considered to be the result of the work having been performed professionally. 
30.4	The Actual Approval Date is the date when:
 (i)  The delivery has been approved in writing by Husqvarna, in the form of an approval document presented by Fujitsu; or
 (ii)  The acceptance test period has expired without Husqvarna having notified Fujitsu that the deliverable has failed acceptance testing (“Deemed Acceptance”); or
 (iii) The delivered results meet the Specification after Fujitsu has corrected any legitimate observations made by Husqvarna in the minutes of the acceptance test (although sometimes subject to the correction of remaining minor defects in a punch list).
For the avoidance of doubt any defects which only have an insignificant impact on Husqvarna’s use of the deliverable and do not prevent Husqvarna from the intended use thereof shall not prevent the Actual Approval Date from coming into effect. 
Husqvarna shall not be entitled to use a deliverable or any part thereof before the Actual Approval Date, unless otherwise agreed.
31	Liability for defects and other breach of contract
31.1	 The term "defect" means deviations from the requirements and characteristics set out in the MSA or a sub-agreement for a service, or with regard to the manner in which the service shall be provided. In a Project Agreement, a defect means a in the delivered result from the agreed Specification or another requirement expressly stated in the MSA or the Project Agreement.
31.2	In the event of a defect for which Fujitsu is liable, or another breach of contract on Fujitsu’s side, Fujitsu shall remedy the breach at its own expense with the urgency required under the circumstances, and always within any deadline expressly agreed, for example in Schedule 7. A remedy for a defect of a technical nature shall be made by correcting the defect, unless agreed that it may be corrected by way of a work-around. For the avoidance of doubt, the remedy of a defect may always initially be corrected by way of work around.
31.3	If Fujitsu should not remedy a defect with the urgency required under the circumstances, Husqvarna shall, for the time after the defect should have been corrected, be entitled to a reasonable and proportionate price reduction for the time during which defects are present in a Service. In relation to a defect where specific liquidated damages (such as a Service Level Credit) have been agreed, the liquidated damages shall constitute such reasonable price reduction. In addition to the price reduction/liquidated damages, Husqvarna is entitled to compensation for any damage arising as a result of the defect or other breach of contract, in excess of any liquidated damages, subject to the limitation set out in Section 42. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 31.3 shall not apply to projects until after the Stipulated Approval Date.
31.4	Under Project Agreements entered into by the Parties, a warranty period of three (3) months shall apply, under which Fujitsu shall continue to remedy defects at its own expense. The warranty period shall commence on the later date of a) the Actual Approval Date and b) the date on which Husqvarna puts the delivered results into production, albeit not a date later than three (3) months from the Actual Approval Date.
31.5	Fujitsu shall not be liable, i.e. shall not face sanctions, for a defect (including Service Level Default) or other breach of contract where it is:
(i)	Caused as a result of Husqvarna failing to perform (itself or via a Group Company or third party) its obligations under the MSA or a sub-agreement;
(ii)	Caused by Husqvarna’s use of software or other items together with equipment, accessories or software other than those intended or instructed by Fujitsu or a relevant third party product supplier, or by Husqvarna having provided incorrect information;
(iii)	Caused by problems in hardware equipment, network components, software or services for which Fujitsu is not financially or operationally responsible;
(iv)	Attributable to standard third-party products included in a Husqvarna IT environment and it is not possible for Fujitsu to circumvent the defect using reasonable commercial efforts, and it is only possible to remedy the defect with assistance (for example providing a bug fix) from the relevant third party standard product supplier;
(v)  Attributable (in case of Service Level Default) to circumstances which are exceptions from liability described in Section 4.7 of Schedule 7; and
(vi)	Attributable to force majeure in accordance with Section 43.
31.6	For the avoidance of doubt, Fujitsu shall still administer, search and remedy defects referred to above, where this is part of Fujitsu’s Services in Schedule 1. 
32	Liability for delays under a Project Agreement
32.1	If the Actual Approval Date has not occurred on the Stipulated Approval Date in accordance with Section 30.4, a delay is considered to have occurred if this is caused by circumstances for which Fujitsu is liable. Fujitsu must pay liquidated damages for such delay unless it can prove that the delay is due to Husqvarna or Husqvarna’s other suppliers. 
32.2	The liquidated damages for a delay under a Project Agreement (except the Project Agreement for the Transition Project) shall, unless otherwise agreed, be equal to two (2) % of the project price (or the estimated price for projects charged on a time and material basis) for the delivery in question for each commenced week of delay, up to a maximum of (twelve) 12 % of the relevant project price, unless otherwise agreed for a specific project. If requested by Husqvarna, the Project Agreement may contain provisions for liquidated damages for delay to be linked to milestones in the project timetable. 
32.3	As the regards the Project Agreements for Transition Project 1 and Transition Project 2, the Parties agree that it is not adequate to apply liquidated damages for delay. As Fujitsu is Husqvarna’s incumbent supplier, the Handover Dates for the Services will under all circumstances occur in time. Any delay in the Transition Project 1 or Transition Project 2 on Fujitsu’s side, shall not delay the Handover Dates. However, general damages according to Section 32.4 shall apply. 
32.4	In addition to liquidated damages in accordance with Sections 32.2, Husqvarna is entitled to compensation at an amount corresponding to Husqvarna’s direct and documented additional costs in excess of the value of the liquidated damages, within the limitations set out in Section 42.
33	Step-in rights
33.1	In the event that Fujitsu fails to rectify a material defect within the time limits referred to in Section 31.2, or fails to rectify a material breach of contract within the time limits referred to in 45.1 (where the breach is rectifiable), including any force majeure situation, Husqvarna is entitled to notify Fujitsu (describing in reasonable detail the material defect or other material breach), and inform Fujitsu that in the event that Fujitsu does not remedy the relevant breach within a rectification period reasonably decided by Husqvarna, Husqvarna will either itself or through an appointed third party, step-in to provide the part of the Services subject to the material defect or correct the breach.
33.2	For the sake of clarity, the right to step in does not include any right to enter into Fujitsu’s (and Fujitsu Group Companies and sub-contractors) premises, nor that Fujitsu shall be obligated to disclose any commercial or cost related information (unless specifically required for the failure correction), or any confidential information concerning its other customers. For the avoidance of doubt, Husqvarna will be liable for any damage or disruption caused to Fujitsu by Husqvarna exercising its rights under this Section 33.1.
33.3	Fujitsu shall be entitled to proportionate service fees for the Services actually still performed during the period of step-in. Husqvarna shall be entitled to set off, from the service fees, such compensation that it is entitled to pursuant to the foregoing section and shall notify Fujitsu of such set-off calculation. Any such compensation shall not stop/limit Fujitsu recovering its proportionate service fees for the Services actually still performed during the step-in period. For the avoidance of doubt, Fujitsu shall not be responsible for paying invoices from the step-in supplier or Husqvarna’s internal cost for the step-in activity, but any increase of the cost for the relevant services on Husqvarna’s side as a result of the step-in shall be recoverable by Husqvarna as general damages, subject to the limitation set out in Section 42. For the avoidance of doubt, no payment shall be made by Fujitsu to Husqvarna in event of force majeure.
33.4	When Husqvarna is satisfied that Fujitsu is capable of resuming performance of those services that are subject to step-in, or the event causing step-in is no longer applicable, Husqvarna and Fujitsu shall co-operate in order to promptly prepare a plan for how Fujitsu shall be reinstated. Such plan shall include agreed acceptance criteria to be used for the purpose of confirming whether Fujitsu is ready to be reinstated. 
33.5	Where Fujitsu can demonstrate to Husqvarna’s reasonable satisfaction that the third party proposed to perform step-in services has the potential, because of the identity of that party or its position vis-à-vis Fujitsu, of causing damage to Fujitsu (including, for example, by way of historic or on-going disputes and/or litigation), Husqvarna shall not unreasonably refuse to appoint another third party to perform the step-in services. 
34	Auditing
34.1	Husqvarna has the right to have an independent auditing firm, of good repute and independent of both Parties, or a Husqvarna employee, or an external representative of a governmental supervisory authority, conduct a) audits of Fujitsu’s services for Husqvarna in an effort to establish whether Fujitsu has fulfilled its commitments under the MSA and the sub-agreements, or b) other audits of Husqvarna’s operation in relation to which Fujitsu’s delivery under the scope of the MSA is of relevance. Upon Fujitsu’s request, the person performing an audit hereunder must sign a reasonable confidentiality undertaking towards Fujitsu.
34.2	Notification of an audit shall normally be received no later than four (4) weeks before it is carried out. Fujitsu’s commitments in the delivery of the Services include assisting with audits, for example by providing existing documentation, access to the technical environment, and participating in interviews and discussions with the auditors. 
34.3	Fujitsu is entitled to invoice assistance with audits at the hourly rates set out in Appendix 10a. Husqvarna’s cost of audit, including the costs for the auditor, shall be borne by Husqvarna.
34.4	Any audit shall take place during Fujitsu’s normal business hours and Husqvarna shall reasonably endeavour to avoid interference with Fujitsu’s ability to provide the services in accordance with the MSA to Husqvarna and the provision by Fujitsu of services to other customers.  The auditor must be given full access to those parts of Fujitsu's business, systems and procedures which are relevant for the audit, as well as access to relevant and requisite staff and access to data and documentation. If the same system is used by both Husqvarna and another customer, the auditor is not entitled to receive the part of the data that belongs to the other customer. Fujitsu shall promptly provide the auditor with all data and all other materials necessary for the audit as requested. Normally, this means that the requested materials must be submitted to the auditor within three (3) working days, unless there are specific grounds for later submission. Fujitsu shall work actively to ensure that its sub-contractors provide the same information and level of participation as Fujitsu itself is committed to under the MSA.
34.5	When Fujitsu performs third party audits and receives reports, eg. Statement on Auditing Standards SSAE 16 and ISAE 3402  reports, Husqvarna shall be entitled to receive copies of the relevant certificate and such reports (any confidential information about other customers of Fujitsu to be excluded), subject to Husqvarna compensating Fujitsu for fee to be paid to a third party for sharing such report.
34.6	Subject to having informed Fujitsu’s CISO well in advance and having agreed with the Fujitsu the prerequisites and conditions, Husqvarna shall have the right to conduct external scans, technical vulnerability assessments, and penetration testing through Fujitsu’s networks which are used in the scope of the Services, in order to check security, with the obligation that Husqvarna must inform Fujitsu’s security manager prior to such testing and shall immediately stop such intrusions and report any defects as soon as they are encountered.  
35	Confidentiality and Husqvarna Data
35.1	During the term of the MSA and for a period of five (5) years thereafter, each Party undertakes not to disclose to a third party, without the other Party's consent, any and all information about the other Party's business (including the business of its Group Companies, customers or collaborating partners) of a nature that would normally be regarded as a business or professional secret (“Confidential Information”). For the avoidance of doubt, all information explicitly stated as confidential by either of the Parties, shall always be regarded as Confidential Information.
35.2	Notwithstanding Section 35.1, a Party shall always have the right to share Confidential Information with its external advisers, Group Companies, subcontractors and any external consultants who it may engage, on a need to know basis. Prior to sharing confidential information with such advisors, Group Companies, subcontractors and consultants, the Party shall procure that they are bound by confidentiality obligations no less strict than those in this Section 35.
35.3	Husqvarna (or another entity within the Husqvarna Group, or a third party) is the owner of data provided to Fujitsu under the MSA, or created as a result of Fujitsu’s services processing data for Husqvarna hereunder (including e.g. data in the CMDB and Fujitsu tools), and data stored, transmitted and processed on Husqvarna’s behalf within infrastructure which is owned or leased by Husqvarna or which is provided to Husqvarna by Fujitsu (“Husqvarna Data”). In the relationship between Husqvarna and Fujitsu, Husqvarna also has all rights and title to Husqvarna Data. Fujitsu only has the right of disposal over Husqvarna Data to the extent necessary for Fujitsu to fulfil the MSA and the sub-agreements. 
35.4	Upon expiry of the MSA or an individual Service, Fujitsu shall make available, destroy or return Husqvarna’s data in accordance with Section 3 of Schedule 12.
35.5	The obligations contained in Sections 35.1 to 35.5 do not apply to any Confidential Information which:
(i) Is lawfully known by the recipient of such information at the time of disclosure without any obligation to keep the same confidential; or
(ii) Becomes, through no fault of the recipient of the information, known or available to the public; or
(iii) Is independently developed by the recipient of the information, without use of or reference to such Confidential Information; or
(iv) Is rightfully disclosed to the recipient of the information, by a third party without restriction; or
(vi) A Party is obliged to make available under law or applicable stock exchange rules.
36	Insurance and risk for equipment
36.1	During the term of the MSA and for a period of twenty-four (24) months thereafter, Fujitsu shall have and maintain adequate liability insurance to cover any damage that Husqvarna may incur as a result of a defect or negligence attributable to Fujitsu. Upon Husqvarna’s request, Fujitsu shall provide Husqvarna with a copy of its insurance certificate. The insurance coverage for Fujitsu’s liability insurance shall not be lower than the average annual contract value under this MSA.
36.2	The risk of harm to equipment shall be borne by the Party in whose disposition (either itself or through a sub-contractor) the equipment is located.
37	Personal data processing
37.1	Fujitsu will, within the framework of its assignment with Husqvarna, process personal data on Husqvarna's behalf. When processing such personal data, Fujitsu is the personal data processor in accordance with the Swedish Personal Data Act (1998:204), implementing EU Directive 95/46/EC.
37.2	Fujitsu may not process personal data for any purpose other than to perform its services in accordance with the MSA and its sub-agreements. Fujitsu is obliged, in accordance with the instructions given by Husqvarna, to take appropriate technical and organisational measures to protect the personal data it processes within the scope of the services. Fujitsu undertakes to comply with the Swedish Data Inspection Boards’ general advice on security of personal data. Fujitsu will inform Husqvarna of any sub-processors (i.e. sub-contractors who will process Husqvarna’s personal data) used by Fujitsu from time to time, and shall enter into processor agreements (and if relevant Data Transfer Agreements, as referred to in Section 37.3) with such sub-processors on Husqvarna’s behalf. 
37.3	If Fujitsu shall provide some of its services to Husqvarna from a third country (as defined in EU Directive 95/46/EC), using a Fujitsu Group company or an external sub-contractor, the Parties shall enter into a separate Data Transfer Agreement, including the standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to processors established in third countries, contained in Commission Decision 2010/87. Fujitsu further undertakes to a reasonable extent assist Husqvarna with any measures necessary in order for Husqvarna to meet its obligations under the Swedish Personal Data Act regarding the transfer of personal data to a third country. 
38	Documentation
38.1	Fujitsu shall keep and continuously update Documentation which meets the agreed criteria, and make it available to Husqvarna in the repository or tool as agreed between the Parties. Updating of Documentation is included in the fees for the Services and in the fixed remuneration under a Project Agreement (when a fixed price has been agreed for a project). 
38.2	Fujitsu shall during the Transition Project make the improvements and additions to the existing Documentations that are necessary - or create Documentation where Documentation is missing - in order for Fujitsu to be able to provide its Services in accordance with the agreed requirements. Fujitsu’s work shall be performed during the Transition Project and paid for by Husqvarna on a time and material basis, unless part of the Services under the Previous Contract. 
38.3	All Documentation developed by Fujitsu under the MSA shall meet the requirements of the MSA and its sub-agreements and shall have the quality and scope which is standard for the industry.
38.4	For the avoidance of doubt, Husqvarna may disclose documents produced by Fujitsu to third parties as part of its procurement of IT services, provided that Husqvarna complies with the confidentiality undertaking in Section 35. For the avoidance of doubt such disclosure shall exclude Fujitsu commercially sensitive information which shall mean information which relates to Fujitsu’s, Fujitsu Group Companies’ or subcontractors’ costs, pricing or Fujitsu specific methodologies and processes and other information which ought reasonably be regarded as commercially sensitive.
39	Intellectual property rights
39.1	The title and copyright to software, documentation, data, etc. provided by Husqvarna to Fujitsu resides exclusively with Husqvarna, and Fujitsu has no rights thereto, except for the right to use them for the sole purpose of providing its services to Husqvarna. However, as regards Fujitsu’s own Operation Handbook, the Parties agree that it is owned by Fujitsu but may be used by Husqvarna within the Husqvarna Group during the contract term, and after the contract term as regards Husqvarna specific information, provided that Husqvarna complies with the confidentiality undertaking set out in Section 35. 
39.2	The title and copyright to software, documentation, data, etc. which has been developed specifically for Husqvarna according to Husqvarna’s specification in connection with assignments under the MSA and any sub-agreement, and the costs of which have been borne by Husqvarna (i.e. are deliverables under a Project Agreement or Consultancy Agreement), belong to Husqvarna (or, where applicable, a third party) however excluding any Fujitsu pre-existing intellectual property rights), including the right of modification and assignment.
39.3	The title and copyright to software and documentation which have not specifically been ordered and paid for by Husqvarna and which Fujitsu has embedded into a deliverable/solution provided to Husqvarna, i.e. Fujitsu’s pre-existing material (including any amendments, modifications, or enhancements thereto), belong to Fujitsu (or, where applicable, a third party). Husqvarna shall be granted a non-exclusive, non-transferable limited license during the term of the MSA to use these in order to receive services from Fujitsu and in order to use its IT systems. Any use of third party materials in connection with the Services shall be subject to the license terms of the relevant third party.
39.4	If Fujitsu should include Fujitsu developed scripts and other limited software code not commercially available from Fujitsu in Husqvarna’s systems as part of the Services, for example within incident management connected to the Services in Schedule 1f, Husqvarna may continue using such scripts and limited software code in its business after the termination of the MSA, including changing and transferring it, albeit only for the Husqvarna Group’s internal use, and at Husqvarna’s own risk as regards any defects or third party intellectual property infringement caused by such Fujitsu developed scripts and other limited software code.
39.5	If Fujitsu includes open source software in Husqvarna’s systems in the course of providing services to Husqvarna, without informing Husqvarna and without obtaining Husqvarna’s written consent, Fujitsu shall replace such open source software at its own expense, if Husqvarna should find that this presents a problem. 
39.6	Copyright to software under this MSA means copyright to the software in both machine-readable format and source code format, and includes all associated system documentation.
39.7	Within the constraints imposed by confidentiality provisions, Fujitsu is entitled to re-use the know-how which Fujitsu receives during the course of its assignment for Husqvarna, albeit information about Husqvarna business processes shall not be used in any way that may have negative impact on Husqvarna from a competition perspective.
40	Infringement of intellectual property rights
40.1	Each Party shall indemnify, defend and hold the other Party harmless from all claims, actions, liabilities, damages, reasonable costs and expenses, including legal fees, which arise from claims by a third party relating to infringement of intellectual property rights which are owned by the third party and which are attributable to products which the Party has made available to the other Party in accordance with the MSA or its sub-agreements, provided that the indemnifying Party is informed about the claim as soon as possible. The indemnifying Party shall have the right to take over the handling of the case (in both legal and non-legal matters), as well as any negotiations that may relate to such a claim.
40.2	Where a claim is made or action brought for infringement of third party rights relating to a Party’s product (or where a Party believes that there is a high risk that such an action will be brought), that Party may at its own expense take steps to avoid the infringement or alleged infringement, including changing or replacing the product in question, or by acquiring a license to use the right which has been infringed or is alleged to have been infringed. If by such measures the Party is able to avoid the claim, the threatened action, or the claim of infringement or alleged infringement, the Party shall have no further obligations relating to the claim, the threatening process or alleged infringement under the terms of this provision, unless the Party is in breach of other terms and conditions of the MSA.
40.3	The indemnifying Party has no obligation to indemnify the other Party take any of the actions described in this Section 40 to the extent any such claim arise as a result of (i) any use  by the indemnified Party of products or services in combination with any item not provided by the indemnifying Party, or (ii) the use by the indemnified Party of products and services in a manner not reasonably intended. 
40.4	For any third party software used by a Party for the Services the terms of the relevant third party licensor shall apply between Husqvarna and Fujitsu regarding infringement of intellectual property rights.
41	Exit activities upon termination 
41.1	When the MSA expires or is being terminated, Husqvarna has the right to order (under a Project Agreement or Consultancy Agreement) Fujitsu to carry out the activities described in Schedule 12. Any such ordering shall be submitted to Fujitsu no later than three (3) months prior to the expiry or termination of the MSA.
41.2	Fujitsu shall receive compensation for its help with the handover of the Services to Husqvarna or to Husqvarna’s new supplier based on a fair and verifiable assessment of the time spent on the task in accordance with the hourly rates set out in Schedule 10.
41.3	Upon termination of the MSA, or an individual Service, Husqvarna is entitled to receive a copy of its business applications and Husqvarna Data (see Section 35.3), according to the requirements set out in Schedule 12.
41.4	Fujitsu shall, to a reasonable extent and for at least one (1) year after the expiry of the MSA, continue to provide Husqvarna with support under a separate agreement. Such support shall relate to answering individual questions, and the time spent shall be invoiced in accordance with the rates agreed at that time.
41.5	Upon expiry or termination of the MSA, Husqvarna is entitled and obligated, to take over (or allow its new supplier to take over) Customer Specific Assets from Fujitsu at net book value according to IFRS or at residual value under the applicable lease agreements or, subject to necessary third party consent, replace Fujitsu (including Fujitsu Group Company if applicable) as lessee to such lease agreements on equal rights and obligations. Until such replacements have been executed Fujitsu (and Fujitsu Group Company if applicable) will receive and hold the benefits of the lease agreements for Husqvarna and Husqvarna will pay and reimburse the Fujitsu any sums payable in connection with such lease agreements. In the event of partial termination or expiry of the MSA such right and obligation shall apply to the parts which relate to the terminated or expired part of the MSA. 
42	Limitation of liability
42.1	Subject to the Liability Cap in Section 42.2, each Party is responsible for any direct damage incurred by the other Party or its Group Companies due to its breach of contract or negligence. There will be no compensation for loss of profits, turnover, production, goodwill, anticipated business or savings and any other indirect damage, except to the extent expressly agreed under the MSA or under a sub-agreement. 
42.2	For each twelve (12) months period from the Effective Date of this MSA, either Party’s potential aggregate liability under the MSA and any and all sub-agreements shall not exceed eighty (80) % of the aggregated fees invoiced by Fujitsu under the MSA and all sub-agreements during the twelve (12) month period immediately prior to the twelve (12) month period in which the cause of the liability arose (for the purpose of this Section 42.2 referred to as the “Liability Cap”). During the first twelve (12) month period, the Liability Cap shall be equal to the estimated aggregated fees to be invoiced by Fujitsu during the first twelve (12) months of the MSA. 
42.3	The limitations of liability in Sections 42.1 and 42.2 shall not apply to intentional damage or damage caused by gross negligence, wilful misconduct or fraud. It shall also not apply to damage caused by a breach of confidentiality obligations or infringement of third party intellectual property rights.
42.4	Fujitsu is liable for loss or corruption of data due to Fujitsu’s breach of contract and/or negligence as follows; If Husqvarna is responsible for backup, Fujitsu’s liability is limited to re-entering and/or reconstructing the data that has been lost or corrupted since the last correct backup was made or (if not made) should have been made by Husqvarna. If Fujitsu is responsible for backup, Fujitsu’s liability is limited to re-entering and/or reconstructing the data that has been lost or corrupted since the last correct backup was actually made by Fujitsu. Where Fujitsu is unable to reconstruct and/or re-enter the data, Fujitsu shall instead compensate Husqvarna for its direct costs for re-entering and/or reconstructing the data, subject to the Liability Cap. Husqvarna undertakes to act to limit the costs for its loss or corruption of data.  Husqvarna has the corresponding obligations to the Fujitsu for Fujitsu data as set out in this Section 42.4.
42.5	Claims for compensation under the MSA or under a sub-agreement entered into under the MSA must be brought within six (6) months after the Party discovers or should have discovered the basis for the claim, but no later than twenty four (24) months after the work or the harmful action has been performed. In the event that a claim is lodged after the termination of the MSA, the Liability Cap in Section 42.2 above that applied in the final twelve (12) month period of the term of the MSA shall apply.
43	Force majeure
43.1	If a Party is prevented from fulfilling its commitments in accordance with the MSA due to circumstance beyond that Party's control, such as natural disasters, labour disputes, an amendment to government regulations, government intervention, and errors or delays in services from a sub-contractor for reasons of force majeure, this shall constitute grounds for an increase in the amount of time available for performing a task as well as relief from damages and any other sanctions. If, due to the circumstances mentioned above, performance of the affected delivery is, to a material extent, prevented for longer than two (2) months, the Party has the right to terminate the delivery in question in writing.
43.2	Each Party shall immediately notify the other Party where a force majeure situation means that the former Party is unable to fulfil its obligations under the MSA.
44	Terms of the MSA and the sub-agreements
44.1	This MSA shall enter into force on the date on which it has been signed by both Parties and shall be valid for three (3) years from each respective Handover Date set out in Section 46 (the “Initial Contract Terms”), unless terminated in accordance with another provision of the MSA. Husqvarna has an option to extend the initial term for all or individual Service Towers by one (1) year at a time, up to a maximum of two (2) years from the end of each Initial Contract Term. Husqvarna shall give written notice that it wishes to exercise this option to extend the term at least six (6) months before the expiry of the Initial Contract Term and the expiry of the first renewal term, respectively. 
44.2	Husqvarna may, after an Initial Contract Term expires or terminates extend the MSA (either in its entirety or with respect to certain Services) by up to nine (9) months, giving three (3) months written notice prior to expiration/termination. If it is necessary to ensure cost coverage and reasonable profit for Fujitsu for partially extended Services, the Parties shall adjust the unit prices to apply during the extension. The right regulated in this Section 44.2 could be exercised by Husqvarna in a situation where its procurement of replacement services is delayed or where the new service provider needs more time to transition the services in a controlled manner. If the term is extended in accordance with this Section 44.2 it can be terminated by Husqvarna at any time (i.e. either before or after the end of the Initial Contract Term) with four (4) month’s written notice.
44.3	The contract terms of Project Agreements and Consultancy Agreements entered into hereunder are set out in such relevant sub-agreement.
44.4	If the MSA has expired, its terms and conditions shall continue to apply to any and all sub-agreements which may remain in force.
45	Premature termination
45.1	Each Party has the right to terminate all or part of the MSA, or one more Service Towers, or one or more sub-agreement with immediate effect or with effect from the time set out by the Party in the termination notice, which shall be not more than twelve (12) months in the future, if:
 (i)	The other Party materially breaches its obligations in accordance with the MSA and - where such breach is possible to rectify - does not rectify the breach within thirty (30) days after receiving a written request to do so; or
 (ii)	The other Party is declared bankrupt, enters into composition proceedings, is subject to corporate restructuring, or may otherwise be assumed to be insolvent.
45.2	Examples of material breach of contract include:
(i)	Breach of a material term in the confidentiality obligation in Section 35; or 
(ii)	Liability to pay Service Level Credits amounting to the At-Risk Amount in Section 12.5 above three (3) times in any six (6) months period. 
(iii)	The entire SAP environment, or one or several business critical Managed Object, is unavailable during three (3) days or longer due to circumstances that Fujitsu is responsible for, and this has occurred more than once in a calendar year (in which case only the Services in Appendix 1f (Application Management) and Appendix 1g (Application Operations) may be terminated by Husqvarna).
(iv)	If Husqvarna has not paid the Fees for the Services or a significant part of it for two successive months (outside of what is permitted under Section 16.10.
For the avoidance of doubt, the material breaches in this 45.2 (i), (ii) and (iii) are not possible to rectify, so the rectification period of thirty (30) days in Section 45.1 shall not apply.
45.3	Husqvarna has the right, without providing cause, to terminate the MSA or a particular Service Tower specified in Appendix 10a under Termination Fee tab at any time giving at least twelve (12) months’ notice not to take effect before eighteen (18) months from the Handover Date for the Service subject to the termination. Fujitsu is in such case entitled to the termination fees set out in Schedule 10a and Section 41.5 will apply. As regards Appendix 1d - On-site Support, the Parties acknowledge that such Services may be transformed and reduced during the Initial Contract Term, as described in Appendix 1d. This shall not be regarded as termination for convenience and thus, no exit fees shall be paid.  Likewise, if Husqvarna should procure part of the services from multiple local suppliers, or provide them internally, this will not trigger payment of exit fee. Such Services shall be regarded as expired, when the Services have been phased out. 
45.4	Husqvarna has the right, without providing cause, to cancel an on-going Project Agreement or Consultancy Agreement entered into under the MSA in respect of those parts which have not been implemented, with immediate effect. In such case, compensation shall be paid to Fujitsu for any products which were to be delivered for the assignment and which have already been acquired, for work which has already been performed, and for proven and necessary costs.
45.5	Premature termination under this Section 45 shall be notified in writing and considered to have been received by the other Party in accordance with Section 51.
46	Entire agreement and relation to other agreements
46.1	This MSA, along with any sub-agreement entered into under it, shall constitute the entire agreement of the Parties regulating Fujitsu’s delivery of the Services to Husqvarna. However, at the Effective Date, Fujitsu is delivering services to Husqvarna under the Previous Contract (see Section 1 above). The initial term of the Previous Contract will terminate on 31 January 2016, except as regards Application Development and Maintenance Services (Schedule 21 H, of the Previous Contract), for which the initial term will terminate on 31 July 2016, as it was extended by means of Change Order 8 to the Previous Contract.
46.2	The cut-over between the Previous Contract and this MSA shall be handled as described below:
(i)	For the Services described in Appendix 1a (Service Desk), Appendix 1b (Software Asset Management), Appendix 1c (End-user Services), and Appendix 1d (On-site Support), as well as the Services described in Appendix 1e (Cross Functional Services) to the extent the cross-functional services relate to the Services in Appendices 1a – 1d, the agreed Handover Date is 1 February 2016. See however Section 7.1 above.
(ii)	For the Services in Appendix 1f (Application Management) and Appendix 1g (Application Operations), as well as the Services described in Appendix 1e (Cross Functional Services) to the extent the cross-functional services relate to the Services in Appendices 1f-1g, the agreed Handover Date is 1 August 2016. 
(iii)	However, the Parties agree that this MSA shall replace the Previous Contract in its entirety as from the Handover Date 1 February 2016. The Previous Contract thus terminates in its entirety as per 31 January 2016. This means that all services delivered by Husqvarna to Fujitsu shall be delivered under this MSA as from 1 February 2016. This includes any in-flight projects and consultancy services. 
(iv)	As regards the period between 1 February 2016 and 31 July 2016, the services delivered by the former TDS organisation (as described in the Previous Contract), including the CPE pool and the on-site support activities in Heuchlingen, Ulm and Laichingen and cross functional services relative to such services, the obligations of Fujitsu shall be the same as if they were delivered under the Previous Contract. This means that the content of the Services, the model for Service Levels and Service Level Credits and the prices set out and described in the Previous Contract shall apply under this MSA, until the Handover Date 1 August 2016, when the service descriptions, model for Service Levels and Service Level Credits and the prices set out and described in this MSA shall apply in full. See further details in Section 16 above.
(v)	The SITS Services to be provided on-site in Heuchlingen, Ulm and Laichingen (including Siemens Network), under the MSA from the Handover Date 1 August 2016 shall be agreed and described by the Parties during the Transition Project, using Appendix 14a - Template for site specific delivery. The SITS Service is priced in Appendix 10a at Effective Date, but the detailed service description shall be created based on the high-level description drafted by the Parties named “SITS Siemens Network, Ulm, Heuchlingen, and Laichingen – Higg-level scope”.
47	Assignment of agreement and right to receive payment, etc.
47.1	Neither Party has the right to assign, sub-license or pledge its rights and/or obligations under the MSA or a sub-agreement in any part, without the prior written approval of the other Party. Such approval may not to be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned.
47.2	However, each Party has the right to assign its rights or obligations in accordance with the MSA to another company within the same Group. 
47.3	Further, Fujitsu is entitled assign the right to receive payment of the fees to be paid by Husqvarna in whole or in part to a third party provider of receivables financing or similar financial arrangement (provided that Fujitsu remains liable for its obligations hereunder, and payment of such element of the charges at Fujitsu’s direction shall still constitute satisfaction of Husqvarna's related payment obligations).
47.4	When Husqvarna divests an entity or business unit, so that such entity or business unit is no longer part of Husqvarna Group, Fujitsu undertakes upon Husqvarna’s request to continue delivering all or part of the Services to such entity or business unit under the MSA, for up to twelve (12) months after the divestment.
48	Option for Husqvarna’s Group Company to procure services
48.1	The Parties agree that any company which from time to time is a part of the Husqvarna Group shall have the right to enter into independent sub-agreements (i.e. Project Agreements and Consultancy Agreements) with Fujitsu, incorporating the applicable terms and conditions of this MSA, including but not limited to pricing principles, etc. 
48.2	The Parties agree that Husqvarna shall be entitled to procure Services through any of its affiliates and Fujitsu shall be entitled in such cases to provide Services through its local affiliates. 
48.3	On request from Husqvarna, Husqvarna affiliates shall be entitled to procure the Services, including receiving invoicing for such Services in local currency, in part or in whole, from Fujitsu affiliates established in same country or jurisdiction as the relevant local Husqvarna affiliate. In this event, Husqvarna’s affiliates procure Services directly from Fujitsu affiliate. Any such local procurement of the Services shall be handled within the change control procedure in Section 29. Where appropriate, the Parties shall document such local delivery using the template agreement in Appendix 14a. If a local agreement is not possible, due to the fact that Fujitsu is not present in a particular country, fees to be invoiced to Husqvarna shall instead be invoiced to the relevant local Husqvarna affiliate under this MSA.
48.4	The Parties shall ensure that Husqvarna/GIS is always informed of all sub-agreements, and local agreements regarding delivery of the Services, entered into by affiliates under the MSA.  Fujitsu undertakes to report when such an agreement has been signed. This shall be done in the in the relevant governance forum in Schedule 8.
49	Non-solicitation
49.1	Neither Party shall, during the term of this MSA and for a period of twelve (12) months thereafter, directly or indirectly, employ or offer to employ any person who is an employee of the other Party and who was involved with the provision of the services under the sub-agreements.
49.2	The Parties agree and understand that each Party incurs considerable expense in recruitment, training and retaining its employees. Upon breach of this provision, the breaching Party shall pay the other Party liquidated damages of SEK 100,000 or its equivalent for every such person so hired.
49.3	The non-solicitation obligation in this Section 49 shall not apply where the person hired applied for a job via a general recruitment process.
50	Announcement and publicity
50.1	Neither Party may make any public announcement nor disclosure regarding the existence or subject matter of this MSA, unless required to do so under law or under stock exchange rules, without first obtaining the other Party’s written consent. Such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
50.2	The Parties shall, promptly and in good faith, agree the text of a public announcement in connection with this MSA that may be issued by either Party after entering into this MSA. 
51	Notices
51.1	Formal notices under the MSA may be delivered to the other Party by courier, registered post or e-mail. All formal communications shall be made in English and shall be addressed to the other Party’s contact person responsible for contractual matters (see Section 24 above), with copies to the General Counsel of Husqvarna Legal Affairs, Husqvarna AB (publ), PO Box 7454, SE-103 92 Stockholm, Sweden and the General Counsel of Fujitsu Sweden AB, a corporation organized under the laws of Sweden, with Registration No. 556147- 5897, having its registered office at Kista Alléväg 1, Box 40, SE-164 93 Kista, Sweden.
51.2	Any change of address shall be communicated to the other Party in the manner provided for in this clause.
52	Governing law and dispute resolution
52.1	This MSA and any sub-agreements entered into under it shall be governed by Swedish law, excluding its conflict of laws rules. 
52.2	If a dispute arises between Husqvarna and Fujitsu, the Parties shall endeavour to resolve the dispute by applying the escalation / conflict resolution process described in Schedule 8. If this does not succeed, the dispute resolution process described below applies. For the avoidance of doubt, Fujitsu may under no circumstances interrupt its Services to Husqvarna to any extent, awaiting the resolution of a dispute. This shall not operate or be construed as prohibiting or delaying Fujitsu’s exercise of any right to terminate the MSA and/or any sub-agreements as to all or any part of the services set out in the MSA.
52.3	Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or in connection with this MSA or a sub-agreement, or the breach, termination or invalidity thereof, shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with the Rules of the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. The arbitration tribunal shall be composed of three arbitrators. The seat of arbitration shall be Stockholm, Sweden. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Party shall always be entitled to initiate court proceedings with local courts or other relevant authorities in any country to secure immediate injunctive or other equitable relief.
52.4	The confidentiality undertaking in Section 35 shall apply to any arbitration process hereunder, including the arbitration award. 
*****

	This MSA has been drawn up in two identical copies of which each Party has taken one.

Stockholm 18 January 2016

		
For Husqvarna AB (publ)		Fujitsu Sweden AB 


_______________________________		_______________________________
			
_______________________________		_______________________________

_______________________________		_______________________________

